---
layout: master
title: Gabriel Pillay
---

h2. About me

I have retired from All India Railways Personnel Service (IRPS) from 1-1-2011, having worked as Dy. Chief Personnel manager of the rank of DGM/HRD SWR/HQ/Hubli.

h3.  I have about 43 years of experience including 35 years in HRD department with following areas of responsibility:

# Administrative matters 
# Welfare issues
# Court matters and related court cases
# HRD training and coordination
# Fringe benefits and retirement issues
# Conducted MDP (Management Development Programme) having pioneered it on South Western Railways
# Conducted workshops on HRD matters in several institutes both on railways and outside.
# Conducted workshops on vigilance and training 
# Conducted pension adalats and resolving pensioners issues
# Anchored cultural shows for SWR during all important functions
# Conducted sports and delivered running commentaries
# Conducted RTI (Right To Information Act 2005) seminars 
# Conducted Annual Railway Week Celebrations and SCR and SWR
# Conducted and anchored railway public functions particularly during national integration celebrations viz. Repubic day, Independence day and other important occasions such as Bharat Ratna Dr. B.R Ambedkar jayanti

h3. RARE distinctions in service/career

# Obtained 12 degree/qualifications during my service<br>
# Obtained 15 trainings several of them with distinctions <br>
# Pioneered and started MDP (Management Development Programme) programme <br>
# Stood first in USA in Labor Relations in 1998 (Univerity of Minneapolis)
# Obtained 3 Gold medals in studies/training <br>
# Obtained 3 university ranks in HRD/journalism studies <br>

h3. Awards/rewards in career

# 64 cash awards/meritorius certificates have been earned during my career 

h3. Missionary/Visionary Goals 

# Always considered that "<i>success in life has no destination, but it is a progressive realisation of continuous goals set for oneself and never rest till it is achieved</i>"
# Training is for better and training is forever
# Vigilance department is meant for Educative and Preventive measure, more than a Punitive measure so that we can ensure Loss Prevention, which is an important goal to any organization.

h3. My conviction/AIM for any organisation

# Always beleive in <u>"Value addition"</u> to the organization by personal contribution and also ensure that all personnel work accordingly in that direction.
# Education and learning has no destination but a continuous process. Therefore, I am currently in the final semester of MBA (Final) and  MTH (Final).

h3. Topics that I specialise in 

# Specialised in conduct of MDP (Management Development Programme)
# WDP. (Workers Development Programme)
# SDP. (Students Development Programme)
# FDP. (Faculty Development Programme)
# PDP. (Personality Development Programme)
# LDP. (Life Development Programme)
# Spoken English Programme in 90 days 
# Straighten up your English Programme 30 days
# COMMON ERRORS IN ENGLISH AND THE TENSES CORRECTION =10 DAYS
# A TO Z OF MOTIVATION Programme = ONE DAY SEMINAR

h3. Qualification

%{color:green}MA, MPM, DIRPM (Gold), DTRM, DPM, DIJ, DCL, DLL, DPM (AU), DPM (BIET) CLR & CB (USA - I rank) DIJ. FMC (Gold).IMC (Gold) (MBA) (MTH) MHRM.%

# %{color:red}MA SOCIOLOGY% - 9TH RANK TO UNIVERSITY (MYSORE UNIVERSITY IN 1988 %{color:green}(FINAL YEAR II RANK)% 
# %{color:red}MPM% MASTER OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT – %{color:green}I CLASS (OSM UNIVERSITY)% 2002
# %{color:red}DIRPM% (PG) DIPLOMA IN INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS & PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT FIRST CLASS & FIRST TO KARNATAKA STATE AND %{color:green}All INDIA 6TH RANK GOLD MEDALIST% IN 1986 FROM BIJAPUR (KARNATAKA) 
# %{color:red}DRTM% (PG) DIPLOMA IN RAIL TRANSPORATION MANAGEMENT %{color:green}1ST TO SOUTH CENTRAL RAILWAY%, SECUNDERABAD IN 1986.
# %{color:red}DIPLOMA IN JOURNALISM%, %{color:green}4TH RANK TO UNIVERSITY OF MYSORE% – 1990
# %{color:red}DCL% DIPLOMA IN CRIMINAL LAW FROM ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY 1966
# %{color:red}DLL% DIPLOMA IN LABOUR LAW IN 1995
# %{color:red}DPM (AU)% DIPLOMA IN PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT FROM ANNAMALAI UNIVERSITY. %{color:green}5th RANK TO UNIVERSITY% IN 1995
# %{color:red}DPM (BEIT)% DIPLOMA IN PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT FROM BRITISH INSTITUTE, BOMBAY IN 1990 %{color:green}First attempt%
# %{color:red}CLR & CB (USA)% CERTIFICATE COURSE IN LABOUR RELATIONS & COLLECTIVE BARGAINING FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA FROM AMERICA, %{color:green}1ST RANK TO UNIVERSITY%
# %{color:red}GOLD MEDAL IN RLY. INTEGRATED MGMT. COURSE% IN 2005 FROM RAILWAY STAFF COLLEGE, BARODA.
# %{color:red}GOLD MEDAL IN PG DIPLOPA IN INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS & PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT% - 1985-1986
# %{color:red}GOLD MEDAL RLY. FOUNDATION MANAGEMENT COURSE% FROM RSC.. BARODA
# %{color:red}MDP% PASSED and COMPLETED MDP - MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME %{color:green}with distinction%
# %{color:red}MHRM% - Master of Human Resource Management

View my detailed <a href="/images/resume.pdf">resume</a>
